💠 Tcpdump is a powerful, command-line packet analyzer used to intercept, capture, and log network traffic passing through your computer or server.
💠 The Tcpdump tool and its libpcap library are written in C and C++.
💠 The libpcap library is the foundation for various other networking tools today. Moreover, it was ported to MS Windows as winpcap.

Through this will learn how to:      

        >> Capture packets and save them to a file
        >> Set filters on captured packets
        >> Control how captured packets are displayed

Network Interface :
        >>  A network interface is a connection point between your computer and a network. Each interface can send and receive network traffic.

        Common interfaces include:

                Interface                        Purpose

                eth0, ens5       ->       Wired Ethernet connection
                wlan0	         ->       Wi-Fi connection
                lo	             ->       Loopback interface (localhost traffic)
                any	             ->       All available interfaces

When We run tcpdump, it needs to know where to listen for packets.

If your system has multiple interfaces, traffic may be flowing through only one of them. Capturing on the wrong interface could result in seeing no packets.

To solve this problem we have " -i " (-i INTERFACE)  

steps to select interface for the Tcpdump:
                 
                 1. Finding Available Interfaces :

                                ip address show 
                                     or 
                                ip a s
                    it will list out all the listening interface
                    such as >  eth0, ens5, wlan0, any.

                2.  now add option in command :

                                sudo tcpdump -i <interface name>

                                example 1 : sudo tcpdump -i ens5
                                this will capture all the traffic of ens5 

                                example 2 : sudo tcpdump -i eth0
                                this will capture all the traffic of eth0


Save the Captured Packets :

        we can also save tcpdum output directly to the file using " -w " flag
                   sudo tcpdump -i <interface name> -w < file name >
                   The file extension is most commonly set to .pcap.
                   
                   Example : sudo tcpdump -i wlan0 -w output 
                             this command capture the traffic and save it to the ou file 
                    
                    this will not show in traffic in terminal insted it show ,
        
                    tcpdump: listening on eth0, link-type EN10MB (Ethernet), snapshot length 262144 bytes
                    ^C70 packets captured
                    72 packets received by filter
                    0 packets dropped by kernel
        
                    the traffic will automatically stor to file.


Read Captured Packets from a File :

        We can use Tcpdump to read packets from a file by using -r FILE.

        -i  →   listen to live network traffic
        -r  →   replay and inspect saved traffic

Apply Filters While Reading :

        Applying filters while reading is very usefull, we can filter Particular packet in different different way such as port number, ip address, etc. 
        
        example :
                sudo tcpdump -r dns.pcap port 53
                sudo tcpdump -r dns.pcap host 8.8.8.8

                

