SSL :-
        stand for "Secure Sockets Layer"

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) developed TLS 

TLS :-
        stand for "Transport Layer Security"

        TLS is a cryptographic protocol operating at the OSI model’s transport layer.
        It allows secure communication between a client and a server over an insecure network.
        it ensures that no one can read or modify the exchanged data.

        tens of protocols have received security upgrades with the simple addition of TLS. 
        Examples include HTTP, DNS, MQTT, and SIP, which have become HTTPS, DoT (DNS over TLS),
        MQTTS, and SIPS, where the appended “S” stands for Secure due to the use of SSL/TLS


HTTPS :-
        HTTP relies on TCP and uses port 80 by default.
        HTTPS stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure. It is basically HTTP over TLS. 

        requesting a page over HTTPS will require the following three steps (after resolving the domain name):
          >  Establish a TCP three-way handshake with the target server
          >  Establish a TLS session
          >  Communicate using the HTTP protocol
	
	Adding TLS to HTTP leads to all the packets being encrypted.


SMTPS,POP3s and IMAPS :- 

        SMTPS : Simple Mail Transfer Protocol

                It define how a mail client talks with a mail server and how a mail server talks with another.

        POP   : Post Office Protocol version 3   

                allow the client to communicate with a mail server and retrieve email messages.

                email client sends its messages by relying on SMTP and retrieves them using POP3. 
                SMTP is similar to handing your envelope or package to the post office, and POP3 is 
                similar to checking your local mailbox for new letters or packages.

        IMAPS : Internet Message Access Protocol 
                IMAP allows synchronizing read, moved, and deleted messages.
                IMAP tends to use more storage as email is kept on the server and synchronized across the email clients.
	
	
        The insecure versions use the default TCP port numbers shown in the table below:

                        Protocol	Default Port Number

                          HTTP	                80
                          SMTP	                25
                          POP3	                110
                          IMAP	                143
        
        Similar to how HTTP gets an appended S for Secure and becomes HTTPS, SMTP, POP3, and IMAP become SMTPS, 
        POP3S, and IMAPS, respectively.

        The secure versions, i.e., over TLS, use the following TCP port numbers by default:

                        Protocol	Default Port Number

                         HTTPS	                443
                         SMTPS	                465 and 587
                         POP3S	                995
                         IMAPS	                993

SSH :-
        when using TELNET  it is risky when all the traffic is sent in cleartext,
        It is easy for anyone monitoring the network traffic to get hold of your login credentials

        This solution of this problem is Secure Shell (SSH) a protocol 
        the OpenBSD developers released OpenSSH, an open-source implementation of SSH.

        OpenSSH offers several benefits. We will list a few key points:

                >     Secure authentication: Besides password-based authentication, SSH supports public key and two-factor authentication.

                >     Confidentiality: OpenSSH provides end-to-end encryption, protecting against eavesdropping. Furthermore, it 
                      notifies you of new server keys to protect against man-in-the-middle attacks.

                >     Integrity: In addition to protecting the confidentiality of the exchanged data, cryptography also protects the 
                      integrity of the traffic.

                >     Tunneling: SSH can create a secure “tunnel” to route other protocols through SSH. This setup leads to a VPN-like 
                      connection.

                >     X11 Forwarding: If you connect to a Unix-like system with a graphical user interface, SSH allows you to use the
                      graphical application over the network.

SFTP & FTPS :-  

                SFTP : 
                        SFTP stands for SSH File Transfer Protocol and allows secure file transfer. 
                        It is part of the SSH protocol suite and shares the same port number, 22.
                        you can connect using a command such as sftp username@hostname.  In my case i did " sftp kali@192.168.0.104 " .
                        We can issue commands such as get filename and put filename to download and upload files, respectively.

                FTPS :
                        FTPS stands for File Transfer Protocol Secure.
                        While FTP uses port 21, FTPS usually uses port 990. 
                        It requires certificate setup
                        Setting up an SFTP server is as easy as enabling an option within the OpenSSH server. Like HTTPS, SMTPS, POP3S,
                        IMAPS, and other protocols that rely on TLS for security, FTPS requires a proper TLS certificate to run securely.



VPN :-  
        Stand for virtual private network.
        creates an encrypted tunnel between your device and a VPN server, protecting data as it travels across the internet.