

⭐ Wireshark : -

            Wireshark is an open-source, cross-platform network packet analyser tool capable of sniffing and investigating live traffic and 
            inspecting packet captures (PCAP). It is commonly used as one of the best packet analysis tools.

⭐ Objectives :

            Navigate and configure Wireshark
            Inspect packets and discover information from the different layers of TCP/IP
            Apply display filters

⭐ Use Cases :

            Wireshark is one of the most potent traffic analyser tools available in the wild. There are multiple purposes for its use:

                    > Detecting and troubleshooting network problems, such as network load failure points and congestion.
                    > Detecting security anomalies, such as rogue hosts, abnormal port usage, and suspicious traffic.
                    > Investigating and learning protocol details, such as response codes and payload data.


Wireshark has two types of packet colouring methods: temporary rules that are only available during a program session and permanent rules 
that are saved under the preference file (profile) and available for the next program session.

Packet capture (PCAP) is a networking practice involving the interception of data packets travelling over a network. Once the packets 
are captured, they can be stored by IT teams for further analysis. The inspection of these packets allows IT teams to identify issues and 
solve network problems affecting daily operations

⭐ Packet Dissection :
            Packet dissection is also known as protocol dissection, which investigates packet details by decoding available protocols and fields.
            Wireshark supports a long list of protocols for dissection.

Wireshark uses OSI layers to break down packets and for the analysis

We can see seven distinct layers to the packet: frame/packet,source [MAC],source [IP],protocol,protocol errors, application protocol, and application data.

 >>   The Frame (Layer 1):

                    This will show you what frame/packet you are looking at and details specific to the Physical layer of the OSI model.

 >>   Source [MAC] (Layer 2):

                    This will show you the source and destination MAC Addresses; from the Data Link layer of the OSI model.

 >>   Source [IP] (Layer 3):

                    This will show you the source and destination IPv4 Addresses; from the Network layer of the OSI model.

 >>   Protocol (Layer 4):

                    This will show you details of the protocol used (UDP/TCP) and source and destination ports; from the Transport layer of the OSI model.

 >>   Protocol Errors:
 
                    This continuation of the 4th layer shows specific segments from TCP that needed to be reassembled.

 >>   Application Protocol (Layer 5):

                    This will show details specific to the protocol used, such as HTTP, FTP,  and SMB. From the Application layer of the OSI model.

 >>   Application Data:

                    This extension of the 5th layer can show the application-specific data.


TTL : time to live , under layer 3, , TTL stands for Time to Live. It is a field in the header of an IP packet that acts as a hop limit or 
      "self-destruct timer" to prevent packets from circulating endlessly in routing loops.

TCP payload : A TCP payload is the actual application data carried inside a Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) segment. 

E-tag : stand for "Entity tag". ETag (Entity Tag) is an HTTP response header that provides a unique identifier for a specific version of a web resource.
        It is used by browsers and servers to determine whether the resource has changed, enabling efficient caching and reducing unnecessary data transfers.

  